## URBAN 5123 Programming Tools for Urban Analytics
## Spring 2022
## Lab02-1: Basic tools

### Objectives

 - Introduce the concept of shells
 - Explore the Python Interpretor
 - Learn basic editing
 - Investigate different modes of interaction with the Python interpretor

### Instructions

#### Shells

 1. If your computer runs MacOS or Linux, start a Shell in a new tab via Terminal. If your computer runs Windows, start a Git Bash instead. For Mac user, I would recommend to use [iterm2][iterm2] as it provides more useful components.
 2. Try out the command `man`
 3. What does `ls` do?
 4. What does `ls -al` do?
 5. What does `pwd` do?
 6. What does `mkdir PTUA2022` do?
 7. What does `cd PTUA2022` do?
 8. Enter into your desktop folder by using `cd Desktop`
 9. Create a directory called `PTUA2022-lab2`
 10. Look at your Desktop folder. Notice anything change?
 11. `cd PTUA2022-lab2`
 12. `pwd`
 13. `cd`
 14. What is your current working directory now?

#### Python Interpretor

 1. In your Anaconda Qt Console or Shell, start a Python interpretor.
 2. How do you terminate a Python interpretor `exit()`?
 3. Explore the Python help system by `help()`.
 4. What is the difference between interactive help and `help(object)`?
 5. How do you enter and exit interactive help?
 6. How many keywords are there in the Python language?

#### Editing

Compare using the File browser with the shell to accomplish the following

 1. If your computer runs MacOS or Linux, start a Shell in a new tab via Terminal. If your computer runs Windows, start a Git Bash instead.
 2. `cd PTUA2022-lab2`
 3. `mkdir exercises`
 4. `cd exercises`
 5. `mkdir Lab02`
 6. `cd Lab02`
 7. `pwd`
 8. `touch Lab02.py` 
 9. `vim Lab02.py` 
 10. Press `i` to start the insert mode in vim
 11. Type in the follow python code: 
      message = "hello world"
      print(message)
 12. Press `Esc`
 13. Use command `:wq` to save the python script.
 14. `ls`
 15. `cat Lab02.py`
 16. `python Lab02.py` (it will not work in the Git Bash)
 17. Now edit the file to change the content of the message.
 18. Check if it worked.
 19. Copy your `Lab02.py` in the same directory by using `cp Lab02.py Lab02-copy.py`
 20. `mkdir Lab02-2`
 21. Move your `Lab02-copy.py` to the new directory `Lab02-2` by using `mv Lab02-copy.py Lab02-2`
 22. `cd Lab02-2`
 23. `ls`
 24. Delete the Lab02-copy.py by `rm Lab02-copy.py`
 25. `cd ..`
 26. Remove the directory by `rm -r Lab02-2`

#### Use Linux and Python on Windows 10 (optinal)
  1. You can follow the steps in this [link][bash] to install a Linux system (i.e. Ubuntu or Debian) in your Windows OS.  
  2. Install Python through [Microsoft Store][python], then you can use it in PowerShell (you need to update your Windows 10 to the newest version).


[bash]: https://www.howtogeek.com/265900/everything-you-can-do-with-windows-10s-new-bash-shell/
[python]: https://www.microsoft.com/en-gb/p/python-38/9mssztt1n39l?activetab=pivot:overviewtab
[iterm2]: https://iterm2.com/index.html
