## URBAN 5123 Programming Tools for Urban Analytics
## Spring 2022
## Lab04-1: Functions and Modules

### Instructions

In this exercise you will be writing a module to deal with a particular type of spatial data structure. More specifically, a GAL file (Geographic Algorithm Library) is used to express the binary neighbor relations between a set of n spatial objects. More explanation of the GAL file can be found [here][here] (see Figure 8).

Your module should be called `gal.py`. It must contain functions to do the following:

1. Return a Python dictionary where the key is the id of a spatial unit and the value is a list of the ids of its neighbors.

2. Take a gal dictionary from 1 and return a second dictionary that has the histogram for the neighbor cardinalities. In the second dictionary, the key is the number of neighbors and the value is the list of ids that have key neighbors. It is up to you if you want to draw the histogram. 

3. Take a gal dictionary from 1 and test if there are any asymmetries. An asymmetry occurs when i says j is a neighbor of i, but j does not say i is a neighbor of j.


Test you script on the input file [Lab04-1.gal]

Note: it is okay if you do not use OOP in this lab exercise. 
Hint: to read the gal file, you can treat the gal file as a text file. See some [examples][example].

### Submission

1. Create a branch called `Lab04` that contains your gal.py file
2. Submit a pull request

[here]: https://geodacenter.github.io/workbook/4a_contig_weights/lab4a.html
[Lab04-1.gal]: Lab04-1.gal
[example]: https://www.w3schools.com/python/python_file_open.asp
